Hello from Russia. My name is Niki. 
I live in St. Petersburg city.
In this video, we are going to talk 
about how actions of my government,
of Russian government, affected 
my daily life personally
and basically, how it affected daily 
life of regular Russian people.
Last time, we talked about how 
sanctions affected me so this is kind of  
opposite video, talking about the same subject.
I think this video will be interesting 
for somebody thinking like,
why average Russian person doesn't stand against 
the crime happening in Ukraine right now.
Maybe you will understand an average 
Russian person a little bit better  
after watching me talking about such stuff.
I'm staying at one of my favorite tiny 
spots in the downtown of St. Petersburg.
And if wow, if any of you will 
ever visit St. Petersburg,
check out the Anna Akhmatova 
Museum in this tiny park.
It's really interesting.
There are four things we are going to talk today.
The freedom of information, the freedom 
of speech, the freedom of movement
and general vibe of daily life, 
just here in St. Petersburg,
because I feel that during the last month we lost 
something at every single thing I just mentioned.
Let's talk about the freedom of speech first.
Perhaps it's the most obvious 
outcome for you that right now,
staying in Russia physically, I cannot 
express everything that I have on my mind
and I should filter, I somehow should limit 
the information I share on my YouTube,
on my Instagram and any other social medias.
A few weeks ago, we got a new law in Russia.
You know that as fake news law
which basically, makes me not able to 
speak about what's happening in Ukraine
if I want to say a different thing, rather than 
official information from Russian state medias.
That's why you hear me not talking about the 
stuff that is happening in Ukraine itself
and I just keep sharing what is 
physically happening around me.
I cannot say much stuff online without 
taking the risk of getting, let's say,
detained or fined for quite huge amount of money.
I also cannot go join protests as freely 
as you guys might do in your country.
Basically, I have witnessed the 
first biggest protest happening
in the evening of February 24th in St. Petersburg.
Many people were there. I was there 
as well, live streaming on my TikTok.
I also visited quite a few other 
protests happening in St. Petersburg.
We had people going outside, going to 
the streets to protest every single day
from February 24th to March 
something like 15, some more.
During the first three weeks, we literally 
had people going to protest every single day.
As a result, more than 15,000 people 
were detained during the protests.
Some of them got fined, some 
of them got short jail time,
some of them got much longer jail time.
So if you wonder,
why does average Russian doesn't 
do anything against our government,
doesn't go protesting,
even if that person doesn't like 
what's going on there in Ukraine.
The reason is, people basically, 
scared to take the risk,
especially people who have to 
take care about their families
and who cannot afford basically losing 
their jobs, even for a couple of weeks.
I think you know that Russia is 
a huge and really rich country,
talking about the natural resources.
But perhaps you don't know
that the majority of Russian 
population actually live very poor life
compared to what people have 
in Europe or in America.
A lot of people in remote 
towns, in remote villages,
have their monthly income 
around like $300 per month,
which makes them to be very 
concerned about their survival,
rather than thinking about something bigger.
And in my opinion, it's very 
beneficial for our government
to have most of people, most of Russians,
to balance on the border between 
having poor life and kinda okay life.
The less money people have, the more 
they worry about daily life things
and the less they worry about 
protesting and showing their opinion.
That's why we have a lot of people in Moscow,  
in St. Petersburg and other 
big cities going to protests.
And in provincial towns, especially in villages,
there's like no chance somebody 
will actually stand against as much
as people in Moscow and Petersburg do.
Honestly, I'm staying so far from the 
realities of remote towns and villages
and the only way I'm able to know the hardships
of people who live there 
is watching YouTube videos.
Most of such videos are in 
Russian, obviously, but not all.
There is an ordinary Russian 
guy. His name is Sergey.
He makes videos about people 
in such remote villages,
about people struggling to survive.
Three years ago, Sergey started 
to share stories about them
and how he helps them to change lives to better.
And just recently, he started an 
English channel, "Vasya in the Hay",
very emotional and sometimes heartbreaking stories
that helped me to understand what is going 
on in my own country a little bit better.
Believe me or not, but Sergey cared 
to talk to a random village boy
who seemed to be in trouble.
And since then, he keeps supporting that boy.
He actually messaged me asking 
if I can promote his channel
and how much will that cost.
And once I saw what exactly 
Sergey is doing with his videos,
I said, like, mate you have my deep respect
and of course I can say a word 
about your channel on my videos.
And if you want to pay me 
anything, I will not reject.
I want to see more people 
like Sergey around the world.
Go watch his videos and go 
subscribe to his channel
because you'll understand why I say that.
By the way, Sergey sent me 20,000 
rubles for such a shout out
and I just can't keep it for myself
so I will find a way to spend 
it for helping people somehow.
Let me know if you have any 
ideas how can I use this money.
I have never donated anything in my life 
and I guess that's a good time to start.
I hope it makes sense for you.
From one side, our government 
makes new laws and regulations
to make it harder to express our opinion.
And from another side, many Russian people
are just too concerned about 
surviving on their own.
Not every single person is ready to 
take a risk of having their life broken.
And as a person who lives inside Russia 
right now, I actually understand them
and I do not blame them for 
taking care about their own life
and being silent about what's going on there,
even though it might sound quite harsh.
Freedom of information is another thing
that was influenced a lot by 
actions of our government.
Basically, right now, it's much 
harder for regular Russian people
and for myself, personally, to 
reach information as before.
Many websites, many platforms are blocked,
let's say Facebook, Instagram.
There are talks that YouTube 
might be blocked as well.
And a lot of international 
medias are blocked as well.
And if somebody doesn't know how to use VPN,
then that person doesn't have 
access to any reliable information
and the only thing they are 
left with is Russian TV.
As a result of the fake news law 
and perhaps some other regulations,
we have many independent Russian media be closed
or working in a different way 
or rather, as they did before.
So basically, we lost quite a 
few of sources of information
and from outside of Russia and inside Russia.
And believe me, what we see in Russian TV
is so different from what 
you might see in your news
that it's like it's two 
entirely different pictures.
So if somebody doesn't have access 
to let's say, two points of views
then that person most likely will think that 
Russia is kinda saving Ukraine and so on.
Now, talking about the third freedom 
that we kind of have reduced in Russia,
it's the freedom of movement.
And right now, it's still 
possible to go anywhere I wish.
Let's say I'm able to go to Turkey
and from Turkey to go anywhere where my 
passport or where my visas let me go.
But, it's actually really, really harder 
to relocate from Russia to somewhere else
to people who think about not just 
to moving somewhere temporarily,  
but really thinking about relocation.
During the last month, Russian 
ruble was like a roller coaster.
It went really, really cheap about two weeks ago.
Now it's kinda getting a little bit better.
What happens next, I don't know.
And, a few weeks ago, our 
government made a new regulation,
saying that people in Russia 
cannot withdraw more than $10,000
until September the 9th, 
if I remember it correctly.
And also, cannot take more than 
$10,000 in cash when leaving Russia.
So imagine, if somebody wants to leave Russia,
let's say, go relocate somewhere 
to Europe or somewhere to Asia.
And that person has some life savings,
he has an apartment to sell in Russia.
He is not able to take all his money going abroad
because there is a limit of $10,000 in cash
and it really complicates life for many people.
There are also some other 
regulations that made life of people
who would like to leave Russia harder.
Let's say, now I cannot exchange Russian 
rubles into American dollars in cash.
All what I can do is kinda buy it online
and then after September the 9th, 
again, if I remember it correctly,
I'll be able to withdraw it.
But for now, it's not possible.
I was able to withdraw some 
dollars that I received  
earlier in January, in February, so I withdraw it.
But, if I receive any money right 
now, let's say from YouTube,
from YouTube ad revenue or 
from donations from people,
I am not able to withdraw it in American dollars
and I will have to transfer 
it into Russian rubles.
And on top of that, there is another regulation,
saying that Russian people 
or Russian companies who make  
any kind of income from 
abroad in foreign currency,
they have to exchange 80% of 
the foreign currency income
during the next three days after 
receiving the funds, into Russian ruble,
which is like, very unpredictable 
in falling and growing.
And basically, many people are very 
concerned about it, including myself,
because most of my income comes from abroad.
So you see, such kind of situation 
when, because of the sanctions,
it's like we don't have that many flights 
flying out of Russia to somewhere else
and the available flights, they 
got really, really expensive.
And from another side, actions of our government
also make it more complicated to leave Russia.
And talking about the general vibe,
I feel such a huge difference in 
living here in St. Petersburg,
let's say, one month ago, 
two months ago and right now.
I really love this city.
I think St. Petersburg is the 
most beautiful place in Russia.
I really enjoyed the vibe here, during 
the last year when I was living here.
Then after February 24th, the vibe 
was kind of, really protesting.
I saw a lot of people being against 
what's happening in Ukraine.
But right now, it completely changed.
I see many more letter Z 
appearing everywhere in the city,
especially on any kind of institutions 
somehow relating to government, let's say.
When I take subway,  
there's 100% I'll see the Z signs on my 
way, at basically every single station.
I'm also seeing a lot of news and 
a lot of pictures from, let's say,
from schools, from kindergartens,
these people who somehow 
support that kind of Z stuff.
Perhaps most of them don't even 
understand what is that all about.
I also don't understand what exactly 
it's all about and where it came from.
Just next to the place where I live,
I saw somebody putting the printed Z piece 
of paper and putting that on the window.
I saw some cars having the Z signs
and I also saw some photos of taxi cars
and basically, some city transportation 
cars having that kind of Z too.
Of course, that's not everything 
that I possibly might share,
talking about the actions of our 
government affecting me, personally.
But, it's stuff that I can say. I lost 
some freedom of receiving information.
I lost some freedom of talking about the stuff.
I lost some freedom of movement.
And basically, I had some big changes
in the general vibe that I have 
here in St. Petersburg city.
I want to say big thank you for being with me
and being open to hear what just 
a random Russian guy has to say .
If you like what I do, please also like this video
because it helps my channel to grow.
And if you want to support me even more,
you can do it by joining my Patreon community
or making a single donation on crypto.
It definitely helps me to 
produce more content for you.