Life has changed in Russia this year, and I find 
so much fascinating to document some of these  
little changes around me, just like this half 
empty shopping mall in my Siberian hometown.
Welcome to a typical mall in Russia. My name 
is Niki, I live in Saint Petersburg city,  
but recently I had a trip to my Siberian hometown, 
the city of Omsk, and I thought it will be super  
interesting to show you how my local shopping 
mall looks like three months after sanctions  
took place in Russia. Welcome to the Mega mall, 
the biggest and perhaps best shopping mall in the  
city of Omsk. Just to give you an understanding, 
there are a lot of malls in my city, but my mom  
prefers to spend an extra hour driving to this 
place, for a variety of local and foreign brands,  
and exclusively for Ikea. That's actually me 
and my mom, shopping here, half a year ago.  
I filmed that day but never uploaded on my 
channel. How different it feels at the same place,  
that time and today! All these closed stores give 
a kinda unique feeling of living in weird times.
The plan is simple, first we're gonna see 
what kind of stores left Russia completely,
then what kind of international businesses 
are still operating in Russia, and then I  
think it will be super interesting to actually 
go see what kind of Russian brands, what kind  
of Russian stores, we have here, and what kind 
of clothes I could get there, and for how much.  
After that, we'll do some grocery shopping at 
Ашан, a huge French supermarket that is really  
beloved by russian people. Now, let's go see 
one huge brands that actually left russia,  
and most of russian people are really 
really sad about that. Ikea is definitely  
something iconic here, this Swedish company 
literally conquered hearts of Russian people  
by its stylish design and affordable prices. It 
might sound weird for Americans or Europeans,  
but Ikea was literally my only real option for 
getting everything for home because all other  
alternatives were more expensive and still worse 
than Ikea. This was a crowded place every single  
day of the week, my mom and I sometimes came here 
for choosing a new piece of furniture and having a  
plate of meatballs after that. But today in 
Ikea there is actually nothing, because they quit  
starting from march the 4th of 2022. You know, 
so far I see that our Mega mall, by the way  
that's the name of this shopping mall, Mega is 
quite empty. Today is sunday, but I literally see  
like not too many people here, and I think the main 
reason for that is that the main anchor stores are  
actually closed here, like Ikea, H&M, Zara, and 
quite a few more of them. Of course there are many  
other stores that are still being opened, some 
international brands, some are Russian companies,  
and some of them are actually really getting some 
benefit from other companies leaving the Russian  
market. For example, such stores like Gloria Jeans, 
Твое and BeFree. I see that many more people  
actually visit these stores, instead of going to 
Uniqlo or to H&M, simply because they are having  
kind of decent clothes too. I personally haven't 
been into any of these stores much, and perhaps  
I didn't buy anything at these brands, but today 
we are going to see how it actually looks like.  
These two shops stay next to each other, BeFree, 
how ironic the name is, and this one is Твое,
which is translated like "yours". Let's go check out, 
Yours first. They have a banner over here saying  
that one t-shirt costs 300₽, denim jeans 1 
000₽, and a hoodie from 1 000₽. Niki  
the editor here. Russian ruble has been quite 
weird and unpredictable recently. Two months ago it  
went down to 140 rubles per one dollar, and today 
it stays somewhere around 60 rubles per dollar.  
But at my own bank, I can exchange one american 
dollar, that I earned on Youtube, for 54.6 
russian rubles. That is actually very low money 
in Russia. Even now, when ruble's price increased, 
it doesn't make any difference for prices that we 
see inside the country. Three months ago, prices for  
nearly everything skyrocketed, and right now, when 
ruble is getting "stronger", prices don't hurry to  
become lower. This creates a weird situation, when I 
will be taking prices in dollars, and these prices  
might look extremely ridiculously high for you. 
And if prices for groceries or for clothes might  
not tell you too much, check out this prices for 
Ipad Mini, that's how much it costs in Russia,  
exchanging into american dollars, and that's how 
much you can pay for that in America. But let's  
come back to our shopping mall. You know guys, I 
don't know why they write like 300 per t-shirt, but  
the cheapest basic t-shirt for myself, like for 
a man, I found here, is this black t-shirt. Oh wait.  
That costs 699₽, basically 700₽, which is 
quite a lot in my opinion just for a basic t-shirt.
For a pair of jeans, I will have to pay 2 300₽ each, and that is actually again more  
than they stated outdoors. Perhaps, they do have 
some denim stuff for as low as 1 000₽, but 
honestly, I haven't found it yet. Anyway, check out 
this thing. Can you see this black marker over here ?  
A few months ago, Instagram and Facebook were 
banned in Russia. Russia basically stated that  
Instagram and facebook are extremist organizations.
And some companies somehow started to cover  
their logos, but in my opinion that's just stupid. 
I really tried to find the t-shirt and any denim  
products that would cost exactly the same price 
that they stated by the entrance, I haven't found  
it yet. Maybe I can try my chances with these hoodies. 
You see the signs, the numbers above me, it says  
hoodies starting from 999₽, so I'll search 
every single one of them, I will try to find.
I just searched every single hoodie, and I 
found only two among so many of them,  
for the price they stated. It sounds, it looks like, 
a little bit scammy to me. Let's go see BeFree now.
So befree feels a little bit different from Yours/Твое, and somehow, everything at Yours screams like 
it's a cheap store, without actually providing 
really low prices, and here at BeFree, it feels  
just like a normal store. And I found the basic 
t-shirt over here, it's just pure black and it  
cost 799₽ with a discount, 
and it feels just like a normal nice t-shirt, 
about the same that we saw at Yours. Jeans, would 
cost me much more than at Yours. The cheapest one I 
found here is 3800₽, but the ones I like
over here, kinda like greyish stuff, it costs
 4000₽ exactly. And any of these hoodies 
would cost me 3600₽.
You know, I haven't even visited this store 
before, but it looks kinda all right. I don't really  
need to buy anything right now, perhaps, I don't 
know, a pair of socks, yeah let's find some socks.
Another stop today is a bookstore, I just wanted 
to check if there is anything I like here. 
Dan Brown's Origin will cost me 
exactly 23$ and 63¢.
Dune would cost me 18$ and 16¢, 
Crime and Punishment goes much cheaper, just  
5$ and 64¢. And here is a very 
interesting book, hidden in the history section,  
all about Putin and his comrades 
for 16$. Now, let's go grocery shopping.
This store is massive and Russian 
people actually like it so much.  
It exists in every single big city in Russia. But 
before getting inside, I want to ask you guys to  
subscribe to my channel and 
help me to fix these numbers.
You know guys, i'm not going to look for 
something specific, I'm just going to shop  
for the same groceries as I will do without taking 
my cameras myself. So, you'll see what a real person,  
myself, will get at this place. This is the first 
thing that i'm going to get. I used to buy this  
one for myself, then i showed it to my mom, and she 
really liked it. But look at this today, it costs 700₽  
for 12 pack. You know, before, I used to pay 
250-300₽ for this pack, it's now like more  
than two times more expensive. I'm going to get 
something anyways, but not this one. This one is  
like 60₽ for washing clothes once, a bigger 
pack is like 30-40₽ per once. 
But I'm actually going to get Tide, before 
it was more expensive than Ariel or  
Persil or any other stuff, but 
today it's actually the best choice.
Let me introduce the next 
item in our grocery list: 
toilet paper. And no there is no toilet 
paper panic in Russia right now, but i  
see that my granny is actually getting the
cheapest among all the toilet papers,  
so i guess I gotta get a nicer one. Zewa 
Deluxe Cashmere Peach for 400₽ 12 rolls.
This BS is the toilet paper that many old people 
in Russia get, typically because, first it looks  
like something they had in their childhood 
I guess, like soviet toilet paper, and these  
cost only 7₽ per one, in comparison 
this one costs about 35-40 ₽ per roll.
This is the oil I usually use for cooking, 
this one is pure sunflower seed oil, 
and this one is sunflower seed oil 
plus olive oil. I'm getting this one  
today, and it cost 170₽ which 
is like 60% more expensive than before.
Last time I bought pasta my mom loved it, but the 
price is crazy today. I used to buy this one for  
about 180-200₽ per pack, and now 
you see the price. And i used to buy this one for  
about 200₽ as well, maybe a little bit more 
expensive, and now this one is 350. That is way  
too expensive. I'm sorry pesto, I'm not getting 
you. These are spreads or шпроты in Russian,
basically this is such kind of canned fish, which 
is extremely popular in Russia,
it might look not that beautiful, but actually this one is delicious.
My granny usually buys the cheapest one possible, something like this in metal cans, and they 
are actually not bad, they are delicious too,
but I want to buy something a little bit better, 
so apparently this one is 130₽, which is
I don't know like 50% more expensive than before, 
maybe even more for 160 grams. We are not getting this one today,
originally I wanted to get this one, 
but then I saw шпроты экстра,  it's 270 grams for 230₽.
I didn't find anything i wanted to get from that 
section. And here we have fresh food, vegetables,  
fruits, and also meat, fish, and other kind of stuff. 
I'm also not taking any vegetables or fruit, but  
just for your information, dirty cheap carrot 
costs 60₽, and 44₽ for this onion,  
this potato is crazy expensive 79 no 80₽ 
per kilo. I think a few months ago, this potato  
was around like 40-45₽ a kilo, and now 
it's like double price. And these are cucumbers,  
these are tomatoes, and over here we have apples, 
and other fruit. These apples are the cheapest one,  
they actually look like just so-so, and they cost 
150₽. And nicer apples, the red ones, they cost  
220₽ per kilo. And bananas here, they used 
to be 50₽ a kilo, now it's 104. Here we 
have a bakery of these ашан supermarkets, 
and they actually have a lot of nice stuff. 
Here is ciabatta with olives, a 
quarter of a kilo for 65₽.
This kind of bread is лаваш, very thin, 
something that you can use for making  
such kind of shawarma or any kind of 
other stuff. I'm gonna get one of them.
This kind of meat is something that my mom 
and granny do not buy often, perhaps because  
this one is more expensive than chicken, and 
they prefer to be, I don't know, cost efficient.  
But i want to treat them with some good 
meat. So it's like 750₽ for a kilo,  
for this piece of beef. I think 
it looks nice, let's get it.
You know, I like the idea of getting something to 
my family or friends that they will not get by  
themselves. I thought of getting a really 
huge piece of cheese for my mom, she loves cheese,  
but i realize that she will not finish it 
on time before it actually goes wrong, so  
let's just take a normal 
piece of cheese, but a good one.
These two cheeses are actually Russians, this 
one is Russian Masdam, and this one is Russian..., I  
actually have no idea how to call this cheese, it's like caramel cheese and i'm really curious to 
taste it. Here's really a lot of various 
sweets, and personally, for myself, I do not get  
anything like this, or I get it like really 
really rarely, but my mom loves it, my granny  
loves it. Oh, I know that this one is actually 
very delicious. If I buy any kind of sweet stuff   
I get this one, and it's like 103₽, but 
I used to get this for only 65₽ before.
These waffles are something that I haven't 
seen before, apparently it's from Austria,  
so cheers to my Austrian subscribers, 
and let's get this one, it's 183₽.
I think we got enough of stuff, let's go pay for it,
and i'll be really hurrying to come back home to  
join the live premiere that I scheduled for 
my latest upload. Yeah, hopefully I'll be on time.
You know, in Saint Petersburg, people do not use 
masks anymore. It's like official information,  
in Moscow & Saint Petersburg there's no need to use 
masks anywhere, but apparently in my Siberian  
hometown still some places require customers to 
use masks. As I said in the beginning, I feel that 
we live in such a weird time, and I'm really 
curious to see what will people of the future  
will say, will write, about everything that is 
happening this year. And talking about the people  
of the present, it's really complicated. In Russia, 
basically, we have people divided into two groups,
first is westernized people, Russian young 
people who live in large cities like Moscow  or
Saint Petersburg or basically any other 
big city, they understand what is going  
on and what Russia does to Ukraine, or at least 
they think that they understand, and the second  
group of people is basically older generation 
or people who live in remote areas of Russia,  
who watch just TV daily for getting their news, and 
these people think that Russia is doing a favor  
to Ukrainian people, and it's nearly impossible 
to talk to these people using any kind of  
arguments, but maybe empty malls and emptying 
refrigerators will somehow change their mind.  
Anyways, I'm staying here sharing my daily life 
with you, and if you want to see more videos from 
me the least you can do is subscribing with a 
notification bell and watching the next video.