Hello from Russia, my name is Niki, 
I live in St. Petersburg city. In  
this video i'm going to show you how 
one of the big foreign supermarkets,  
Finnish Prisma, is preparing to leave 
Russia and how it looks in real life.
So basically, I was having a walk back home today, 
and i stopped over at my local shopping mall, just  
to see if I can buy any kind of groceries here. I 
really like this supermarket and what I see here  
is, the entire place changed dramatically. Like 
this sign "Фрукты и овощи", fruits and vegetables,  
but right now at this very place there is 
no single fruit, no single vegetable too,  
basically because Prisma is leaving Russia. 
And I thought it will be super interesting  
to share it with you because, honestly, in my 
lifetime, i have never seen any supermarket, any  
business like this, leaving one country, and it's 
something really worthy to document. And maybe  
I'll also get some groceries, because today they 
basically have a huge sale, they're trying to get  
rid of everything they have in stock, and only 
after they will close the supermarket entirely.
Oh mate, that is the first 
thing I see actually after  
entering the supermarket, a total sale for German 
Glühwein, or how do you pronounce it in German,  
mulled wine. Before it was costing 400₽, now it's 
200₽, which is about 2$ for this beautiful bottle.  
I think i'll get it, i like such kind of stuff. 
Looks like they put a lot of stuff right at the  
entrance, and basically the stuff that they have 
in abundance. And they put a huge discount for  
them like 50% for this mulled wine, about 20% 
for sugar which is actually interesting because  
now people buy sugar as crazy in Russia. And here 
they have really a lot of Finnish sugar like this,  
I guess people don't really buy it as crazy 
because of its price. Originally it cost 200₽,  
which is four times more expensive 
than typical sugar in Russia,  
and with discount it actually costs 120₽ 
so it's like 40% discount, more or less.
Right near the entrance they also have a 
lot of such kind of juice, various kinds  
of cookies. Really a lot of cookies here, like 
one kind, another kind, another kind of cookies,  
and over there basically everything is cookies. 
Apparently, they also have a lot of canned food  
in stock as well as chips. So, looks like Prisma 
literally took every single stuff, every single  
product that they still have and they put it for 
total sale to get rid of it fast. And actually,  
in my opinion, that is a very good example of 
how a foreign company might flee Russia, keeping  
their reputation internationally and keeping 
their reputation inside of Russia too. Because,  
there are so many companies that left their 
users, that left their customers behind, they flee  
like really really quick. And Prisma is one of the
companies who actually took time to leave Russia,  
taking care of the customers and taking care of 
their employees. Because I'm sure, the workers  
you see in the background, they're not going to 
lose their job immediately, most likely they'll  
have some time with their income to be paid by 
company, maybe a month, maybe even longer. I  
actually forgot my shopping cart, let's go. We got 
some mulled wine already and we are going to get  
something else. That's what I was talking about, a 
lot of chips line. I'm sorry. Literally chips are  
here, chips will be over there, chips will be over 
there, chips will be over there. They have a lot  
in stock, and the discount I think is the biggest, 
60% which makes this tiny pack cost 40₽ instead  
of 105. And that huge pack, and this huge pack, 
and this huge pack is 100₽ or just one american  
dollar. Another stockpile of chips here. And these 
letters in Finnish "Hedelmät Ja Vihannekset".
Who can read that is actually very good at 
languages, I cannot. "Овощи" and "Фрукты",
fruit and vegetables over here, but as you can see 
nothing is here. Actually here is a tiny box of  
fresh stuff, like we have a melon over here, and 
here's some pomegranates, some grapefruits, some  
cabbage. Basically there's no much fresh stuff 
left, talking about the fruits and vegetables,  
and also talking about any kind of fresh meat, 
bakery, milk, and the rest of the stuff, it's  
just empty. Don't take me wrong guys, like you 
see me being quite positive, having a smile,  
buying stuff at this supermarket, but my real 
opinion about this thing, what is happening  
around me, is quite bad. I think you understand 
that I would rather have nothing like this happen  
in my country, nor between my country and Ukraine. 
Just one month ago, these rows were full of meat,  
various kinds of meat, and now instead we can 
see such kind of huge huge cans of mayonnaise,  
and also huge pockets of seasonings. Which 
is a very interesting thing, because before  
I didn't see such kind of stuff in sale at this 
supermarket, most likely such kind of huge bags and  
buckets were used by a supermarket itself, not for 
selling it but for producing their own stuff, like  
special kinds of meat and maybe for cooking ready 
meals. Oh my goodness! There are many more huge  
buckets of stuff here. And this one is actually 
very nice, this is slightly salted cucumbers.  
This is the exact place where i got my творог 
last time. And basically, every single row here  
is for dairy products. Cheeses and milk over 
there. Looks like they have no discount for  
dairy products because it's like no much left. You 
see here are really empty rows, like nothing is  
here. I think here we had a lot of instant noodles. 
And there we had a lot of baked stuff, like the  
freshly baked bread and pastry was here, and 
apparently they still have some croissants, and  
some other kind of stuff. Over here we had freshly 
baked bread, nothing right now. And over here we had  
bread from local factories, apparently nothing 
over here. Instead of bread we have some kind of  
cookies over here. And you see the description is 
bread with some, I don't know, supplements, but now  
these are cookies. Over here is such kind 
of, I have no idea, crackers or maybe you call it  
differently. And instead of normal bread, over here, 
it's again something sweet, such kind of 7days  
croissant. After posting the last video  
about sanctions affecting me personally,  
I read what people say about why sanctions are 
put on russia, and I kinda understood the reasons  
behind that more. Even understanding the reason 
why, Prisma themselves leaving Russia makes me  
feel sad about it, because I really like to come 
over here, I really like to get some of their  
products, especially Finnish stuff. But apparently 
now it's no longer possible to get anything like  
that, it's literally closed like this. It might 
be a very interesting topic for a video, what do  
other people think and feel about the sanctions, 
because honestly guys, what I've seen in the  
comments under my sanctions video and what Russian 
people feel and think about that might be a very  
very different opinion. But that's the topic 
for another video I guess. It feels so surreal  
to see one part of the shelves kind of full and 
having a lot of, what kind of stuff is this muesli  
granola, and another side is completely empty. I 
think the only stuff I would rather buy today  
is alcohol or any kind of sauce, because i can 
keep it for long time, and I can enjoy it like over  
time, basically for longer. So let's go have a look 
if they have any alcohol. I'm kind of a cocktail  
guy, I really like mixing stuff, really like having 
cocktails. We have more Scandinavian products here,  
which actually looks pretty attractive, like 
this blueberry mulled wine, and there are some  
other Scandinavian stuff. Half empty shelves over 
there, with like cheap Russian vodka. Discount does  
not work for this product, and it explains like the 
price is "МРЦ", which is minimal product price or  
something like that. So basically it's illegal to 
sell such kind of alcohol lower than this  
very price. It's like 2.5$ for 
this bottle of vodka half a liter. I'm not going  
to take it anyways. I just realized that there 
might be some commenters saying something like  
"hey nikki what are you doing, you are picking 
some alcohol, just caring about that when in  
Ukraine terrible things happen". Like, yes I 
realize what terrible things happen in Ukraine. 
And personally, the only thing i feel I can do 
is to make things a little bit more transparent  
from my point of view, to keep a bridge, to keep 
the understanding, and to keep the connection  
between people in Russia and around the world. So 
yeah, taking care about what kind of groceries I'm  
having today, and what kind of stuff happening in 
Saint Petersburg around me. Well, saying that, I  
want to actually thank you so much for the support 
I'm getting recently, I see a lot of nice comments,  
I see a lot of people actually supporting me on 
Patreon, and make some donations here on Youtube,  
and also make some donations on crypto. Thank 
you so much for that, it really keeps me  
motivated and inspired to continue to do 
the things that I'm doing with my videos.
I'm taking this Summer Ruby Grapefruit liquor, 
I think I'll like it and I think Lisa will like it  
also. Maybe, make some cocktail for her with that, 
or for my friends. I just asked if the discount  
applies to this kind of stuff, and yes it's true. 
Like, every single product on that shelf is heavy  
imported alcohol, discounts for 40%. By the way, the 
store worker who helped me to check the price,  
I also asked her about her job, like if she knows 
will she keep her job for like one month or two  
months or three months longer, and she says that 
she doesn't know that yet. I don't know if that's  
true or not, but she said to me she doesn't 
know it yet, but for now they keep working.  
And that's all that I actually could know from 
her. I used to like buying this kind of stuff,  
it's Glogg, or how do you pronounce it, and it 
costs like 120₽ with no discount, now  
much cheaper with a 40% discount. This one 
is pretty cool, that is olives with garlic in it,  
definitely want to take one, this cost one dollar
and 30 cents for one with a discount already.  
Oh! I found baby, I have no idea how to say this 
thing, but in russian it's "Каперсы". I really like  
it, and today it costs like 60¢ or 60₽ for really tiny one, I'm taking  
it. And i'm also taking this thing, today it costs 1$ for such kind of Pesto Arabiata.
The reason I make and upload this video, is not 
just to show that everything is getting cheaper  
or more expensive in Russia in different ways. 
But, I just wanted to share the things that
don't often happen in any country around 
the world, when many businesses leave, and when  
you can actually document and record how one of 
such companies is leaving Russia. I actually think  
that Prisma is a very good example of foreign 
company fleeing from Russia, because once again  
they took care of their customers, they tried to 
get rid of everything in stock, they most likely will  
take care of their employees as well. So, I wanted 
to share what I've seen today at this mall. Thank  
you so much for being with me and if you want to 
watch more stuff from Russia watch this playlist.